Today's quoting interview question is asked by many companies, because it is a very popular one, so
every developer should know this one.
And this question is called Linked Lists Cycle.
So in this problem, we are given the head of a linked list and we need to determine if the linked list
has a cycle in it.
So let's get right to it to solve this problem.
You're given a function called HAS.
Which takes a linked list, and we need to return a true if the link list has a cycle in it.
So we have to design an algorithm using all of one constant memory.
So let me explain.
The key to solve this kind of problem is to realize that any cycle or any kind of change, if we have
like two pointers and one pointer is twice as fast as the other pointer, that eventually those two
pointers will end up meeting.
And that way we can find out if this is actually a cycle or not.
So let me show you.
So let's say we have one pointer right here and this one's going to be a black pointer.
And this one's going to be a blue pointer, so the black pointer will go twice as fast and the Blue
Pointer will only go one at a time.
So let's move this one.
So let's move this black one twice.
So one to go right here.
And then the blue one would only go once.
They'll only go for once.
So then again, we're going to move this twice, so one to right here.
And then we're going to move the blue.
Just one.
OK, and then we're going to move this twice.
This is going to end up here.
So going to the blue again once.
So we're trying to go until both of those pointers are at the same.
So, again, we're going to move.
So now let's move the black one one, two right here.
But we still have to move this one more time.
So that the one who only wants.
And then again, we're going to move the blacks two times, though, from one to right here.
And then move the blow from here to here once.
And see that you actually have meth, so we can tell from this that this is actually a cycle and we're
just going to return to true Coke.
All right, guys.
So here we have the function called has a cycle and it takes a head.
So the head is represents the entire list.
So head represents the entire linked list.
And what we want to draw is a true if the limitless has a cycle in it, otherwise, if it does not have
a cycle, we're going to return a false and we're going to solve it using all of one constant memory.
OK, so if you remember from the wiper.
First, we need to create two pointers.
The first pointer and the slow pointer both will point to the head.
So that means they will start at the same note of the littlest.
One will go twice as fast and one will just go one one note at a time.
So then we're going to create a loop.
So here are saying if fast pointer does not equal and fast forward, up next does not equal.
No.
Then we're going to continue looking.
So if the fast pointer does equal or the end, the first quarter of next equals.
No, that means it's not a cycle.
So what that means is the latest.
Has a note that points to no no meaning the end the end of the blacklist.
So if there is a and if it is, the note does point to note, that means we've reached the end of the
league list and then that means there is no cycle.
So the list should not have.
No.
So that means it is a cycle.
So what we're saying is, while Pointer does not equal and while the first quarter of next does not
equal, that means it is a cycle.
So what we want to do is we want to have the five pointer dot next dot next minute.
It should go twice as fast and as slow pointer should only go once.
One step, one note at a time.
So slow pointer, really slow.
Pontotoc next.
And then we're going to check if the fast pointer equals a slow pointer, meaning that they have both
landed on the same note.
Then we're going to return it because eventually they're going around the circle and they both landed
on the same note.
So that means there is a cycle and we want to return it.
If it's not equal, then again, we're going to go to the wall and then we're again, we're going to
move the fast forward to two times and slow pointer once.
Remember, as in the as I showed in the whiteboard.
So until it reaches until both pointers reach the same note.
So that's when we're going to return.
And if there is a note, if the note is pointing to a note.
That means it's not a cycle.
So eventually the fast pointer will reach to No.
And we're going to break out of this wide loop and return a false because the DOD is pointing to a note
that means reached the end of the list and that means it's not going to break out of the loop and we're
going to return a force that does not have a cycle.
Otherwise it's going to keep looking.
And the first quarter is going to go twice and the slope is going to go once.
And eventually the fast pointer will land on the same note as a slow pointer.
And we trying to true meaning that the link list has a cycle.
So if you guys have any questions on the solution, then please leave a question in the comment and
will get back to you.